>> Kadi Kraman: The last two topics that I
wanted to cover, we're obviously going for
the heaviest topics last.
But this is something that is
really important to understand as
a native mobile developer,
especially coming from the web.
And the reason I wanted to just cover
it briefly, at least shallowly,
is because you don't
know what you don't know.
And this is giving you an idea of what
build signing is and how it works, so
that if this is the first time
you're hearing about it at least you
know what's to Google next.
In order for any apps to be installable on
a physical device they need to be signed.
So build signing is a security
mechanism and the idea is, well,
the goal is to protect users from
potentially malicious applications.
Both iOS and
Android have build signing, but
the process is completely
different between both of them.
On Android, builds are signed
using an Android keystore.
So this is a cryptographic container for
your keys.
The keystore can be created on a Mac,
Windows, or Linux.
And actually, if we look at our Android
build.gradle, we can see a keystore.
So build.gradle is here.
And if we look at the build config.
>> Kadi Kraman: There you go, so
there is a debug keystore here.
So this is the keystone necessary to run
this Android app on an Android device.
So if you plugged your android phone into
your computer you could run this on your
android phone.
So it would build up a apk and
you can also run it on an emulator
because of this reason.
By the way we talk about like debug
keystores and upload keystores and
production keystores release keystore.
And when I first got started I
thought they were like different types
of keystores but they're not,
it's like having a production API key and
dev API key.
They're the same kind of thing it's
just one you should keep more safe than
the other.
So for the release build you'd
usually create a separate keystore and
we call it the upload keystore.
So, originally, you would have a release
keystore for your release build, and
then that's the one that you sign the
build that you upload to Google Play, and
then you would always need to
sign with the same keystore.
And a couple of years ago,
Google actually migrated off it, and
they managed Google Managed Build Signing.
You can opt out of it, but you shouldn't.
The reason that this is really handy
is because previously, if you for
some reason, lost this keystore.
So say that you had someone build your app
ages ago, and they've left the company,
and they were the only ones that had the
keystore, and you wiped their computer.
There is no way to publish an update for
that app.
So for that reason, well,
there are probably more reasons, but
that was the main reason
that I think Google actually
decided to take on the build signing.
So now the actual production
keys are managed by Google.
So you still need a keystone but we call
it the upload keystore because it is
the keystore that Google validates
that this app came from you.
So you still sign it, but it is not
the keystore used when signing a build
delivered through Google play to the
user's device, so that's what that means.
So nowadays if you use Google Manage build
signing and you lose your upload keystore.
Then you have to contact customer support,
but
it is possible to get this keystore reset
so you won't lose your app forever.
On iOS, things are much more complicated.
I think I was several years into
my React Native developer journey
before I felt that I really
understand build signing on iOS.
And these days,
I can write this down from memory, but
I've had many goals of trying to explain
how it works because there's just so
many bits and
it It feels unnecessarily complex.
The main thing you need to know is that
there are three types of builds for iOS.
There is a development build,
an ad hoc build, and a production build.
So here is a graphic that I created to
try to illustrate the things that exist.
So you will have an app ID.
So this is something that we set up.
We had to choose our app ID when we
run pre-build for the first time.
And an app ID is a unique identifier for
your app.
And it's usually like get reverse domain,
but you can call you can do it whatever,
but it needs to be globally unique.
And all these provisioning profiles that
you generate are tied to your app ID.
So you can't sign a different build,
a build with a different app ID using
This app's provisioning profiles.
So we have three provisioning profiles and
they correspond to the three
types of builds that you can do.
The first one is the development build.
And the development build,
you can only do it via Xcode.
So if I open Xcode and I open, so
it's open existing project and
code, plantly.
So if you ever need to open
a React Native project in Xcode,
the best thing to do is you just
select the whole iOS folder.
Don't try to like figure out which file
to open, open the whole iOS folder and
then it opens it correctly.
So here,
if we go to the signing capabilities, but
you do need to log in, and then if you
can log into any Apple ID account,
it doesn't need to be delivered account.
And then you get access
to this personal team and
with this personal team you can do
a limited amount of development builds
via Xcode and
that's the only way you can do it.
It is restricted for example you can't
use push notifications with it so
if you add push notifications to your app
you need to do a development build with
A developer account,
so it is still limited.
>> Kadi Kraman: Right, so
that is the development build.
The ad hoc build allows installing
on specific iOS devices
that need to be registered
on the App Store Connect.
So you can have, I think,
up to 100 iOS devices at any one time.
And devices have this UDID, which you
can get if you plug your phone in and
look at the phone settings,
the stats in finder,
you can find your udid and
you basically this.
The devices by UDID will be tied
to this ad hoc certificate and
they use it to sign your build, and
then that build can be installed
on those particular devices.
So for the ad hoc build,
we use the distribution certificate so
these all go together, so there we go.
So for development, so the one with Xcode,
we use the development certificate and
development provisioning profile.
And then for both ad hoc and
distribution builds, so
these are the builds that are installable
stand alone without Xcode,
you can download a bundle and
install the regular device.
Those Both use the distribution
signing certificate.
If you do use the EAS CLI,
I mentioned that it handles
bill signing for you and
it is pretty magical.
Let me just show you how it works.
>> Kadi Kraman: So, one thing to note
that unless I add the simulator true,
all builds, built using the ESCLI,
including the development build,
are using the ad hoc certificate.
Forget.
This means that in order to build an iOS
build with EAS that runs on your device,
you do need an Apple developer account.
And this is because you
need Xcode to build it, so
it's very difficult to do on the cloud.
And again, this is why when
you're doing development locally.
You don't have to have
a developer account.
It is handy to be able to have your
local development environment set up so
you don't need an apple developer account.
So let's do a preview build.
So we have ES already set up.
So if I do eas build Profile
preview and platform iOS.
Before I trigger this, so
preview build will be this one.
It needs a distribution certificate and
the ad hoc provisioning profile.
So if I run this, it actually prompts me
to log into my Apple developer account.
>> Kadi Kraman: And so something I
did cuz I've never run this before,
it actually registered my bundle
identifier on App Store Connect for me.
So now if I If I go back
to Certificates and
Identifiers, then there you go.
So we actually have our
new plantly identifier.
So this is a prerequisite to being
able to generate any certificates,
because they are tied against this app ID.
And now this is asking if I
want to reuse a distribution
certificate that I already have.
So this is, again,
something to bear in mind.
So usually each account should only
have one distribution certificate.
So even if you have ten apps on
your Apple developer account, for
distribution they should
use the same certificate.
>> Kadi Kraman: And
now it's asking me want to reuse it?
So let's say yes.
Okay, so this is an ad hoc build,
and as I mentioned,
you need to specifically say which
devices you want to include in it.
So I've registered a bunch
of devices already.
If you haven't, this will also
prompt you to register new devices.
So you can do it via QR code or
you can manually pass in a, Serial number.
>> Kadi Kraman: So now this has created
my ad hoc provisioning profile.
>> Kadi Kraman: And if I go here,
>> Kadi Kraman: So,
>> Kadi Kraman: Okay, so
I think it's not here until we've built.
>> Kadi Kraman: There it is.
Okay, so this is the one that was created.
Another thing to bear in mind is that
when you use specific services on Apple.
So if you build an app and
you need to add what's a common one here?
I think like push notifications,
like on maps I think there is push Yeah,
get push notifications, those are enabled
by default, sign in by Apple.
So these are like specific,
we call them capabilities.
Then these are registered in your app
identifier and you need to rebuild your
app with the provisioning profile that's
been updated since these were changed.
It's a bit tedious, if you're using eas
you shouldn't update this manually ever.
And the great thing is that the next time
you build, if you add a new library or
new capability, the next time you build,
it'll automatically CLI will say
we've synced your capabilities, so
we'll do it automatically, which is great.
And just to call that, so
I've used the cloud builds, but
if you put--local at the end
of any eas build command,
it will run on your local machine, so
it will do exactly the same thing if.
Will do the credentials, it will ask me
to log into my Apple account and it will,
there you go,
it actually syncs capabilities.
So I'm going to say reuse
the profile instead of
register new devices and
what is this saying?
I don't have fastlane available.
Android might probably work,
let me try Android.
>> Kadi Kraman: So if you do have your
native build environment set up, so
there we go.
So these you can see that these steps
are the same as you would use on eas.
So you do have your local
build environment set up.
You can use the eas build commands
to manage your credentials and
then run on your local machine and
not on the cloud.
So you'll be paying anything for
it because for eas all the CLI tools
are completely free, the only thing
you pay for is the build time.
So if you're building on your local
machine or you can use this to build on
your own infrastructure if you
can't use eas, then go for it.